1 
Royal Holloway, University of London 
Department of Computer Science MSc Programmes 
Individual Project — Rules and Guidelines  
For students who started in September 2025 and in September 
previous years 
 
1  Introduction 
This booklet concerns individual projects for Department of Computer Science MSc programmes. It 
contains all the information that you will need, from choosing a project title to writing up, submitting 
and being assessed. 
Your project is a piece of individual work done under the supervision of an academic member of 
staff. It includes the preparation of a dissertation, which will be assessed by the examiners together 
with any software that you will have produced. 
The project is worth 60 credits, which corresponds to 12 weeks of full-time work. The total working 
time associated with the project (including the choice of the project, project meetings and all 
independent work) should be about 600 hours. 
1.1  Types of project 
Different projects may stress theoretical, methodological, or programming (implementation) 
aspects of a problem or case study. It is important that you discuss the specific requirements of your 
chosen project with your supervisor. 
1.2  Why is the project so important?  
Doing a project is an opportunity to demonstrate your ability to develop, individually, a substantial 
piece of work. Success in your individual project will provide evidence of your skills to any future 
employer, and students often use their project supervisors to provide job references after 
completing their degree. 
Your project should be an enjoyable part of your studies: you get to choose a topic of personal 
interest and to study it in depth. 
 

2 
2  Choosing a project and finding a supervisor 
2.1  Choosing a project title 
A list of titles will be made available on the Moodle page of the Individual Project by the date set in 
section 3. You will be invited to complete (electronically) a project ballot form by choosing from 
the list those projects you may be interested in doing. 
You can return the completed ballot form any time after Ballot start date, but you must return your 
completed ballot form by the ballot close date; otherwise a project will be chosen for you. 
Please note that by choosing a title you are not choosing a supervisor. This is because each 
academic member of staff has a limited capacity for supervising project students. Therefore, it is 
essential that you choose as wide a range of titles as possible on your ballot form. 
2.2  Proposing your own project title 
You may propose your own project, especially if you are registered for a ‘Year in Industry’ degree 
so that you can build on the experience that you will have gained during your placement. If you 
decide to do this, your proposal will have to be accepted by the Project Committee as a valid 
project (the Project Committee consists of the academics in charge of the postgraduate projects, 
MSc programme directors, and the departmental PGT lead). This is to ensure that all projects have 
sufficient academic content, and that they can be completed in the available timeframe.  
In order to propose your own project, you need to submit a one-page description to the Project 
Committee before the closing date for the ballot. The description should outline the aims of the 
project, give the background of the proposed work, and specify the deliverables. The deliverables 
should be worded as clearly as possible – the success of your project will be assessed against them. 
Some deliverables should be marked as early; you will aim to achieve them within a month of 
starting the project. Prototype programs and proof-of-concept results are good candidates for 
early deliverables. Late deliverables will be achieved towards the end of the project. 
If you plan to use any data supplied by your placement provider (or another company), you must 
obtain their permission before proposing your own project. The company may impose some 
restrictions, e.g., ask you to withhold some sensitive information or refer to “company X” or 
“customer 123456” in your project report. If you need advice on your particular case, please 
contact the Project Committee. A self-sourced project may require special submission 
arrangements for reasons of data protection or intellectual property. The student proposing the 
project will need to notify the Project Committee of any such requirements as early as possible and 
work with the department to find an acceptable solution. This should be done before the start of 
the project. 
You are welcome to contact a potential supervisor or supervisors to discuss your proposal, but you 
must remember that academic members of staff will not have the final word in the allocation of 
projects. The Project Committee will consider the academic merit of your proposal and endeavour 
to assign you a suitable supervisor. 
In any event, it is essential that you complete a ballot form by the deadline so that, in case we 
cannot find a supervisor for the project that you proposed, you may be allocated one of the 
projects from the general list. 

3 
2.3  Prerequisites 
Some titles have prerequisites associated with them. Typically, this means that you must have taken 
(or be taking) certain modules in order to do the project. It is also possible that certain titles on the 
project list may not be available for the degree for which you are registered. All such prerequisites 
will be clearly indicated on the Moodle site. 
If you are doing ‘Computational Finance’ or ‘Computational Finance with a Year in Industry’, you 
will need to choose at least two titles offered by the Department of Computer Science and two 
titles offered by the Department of Economics.  
2.4  The allocation process 
The allocation of a project and supervisor will be made on the date specified in Section 3. Please 
note that, if we have not had a ballot paper from you by the ballot close date, we will make an 
allocation on your behalf. 
2.5  Projects for Year-in-Industry students 
If you are on a Year-in-Industry programme, you enter the project ballot at the same time as all 
other students. This is so that, if for some reason you do not go on a placement, you do the project 
according to the same timetable as the other students. If you do go on a placement, you will be 
given a chance to revise your topic towards the end of the placement in order to be able to 
capitalise on the experience that you will have gained. You will need to enter the ballot again. 
2.6  Projects for part-time students 
Part-time students enter the project ballot during the final year of their studies. The timeframe and 
deadline of non Year in Industry students applies to them. 
3  Important dates 
Project Allocation: 
Project list available  Monday, 12 January 2026 
Project ballot form program available Monday, 26 January, 2026 
Deadline for completing the ballot form Friday, 30 January, 2026 
Final allocation Monday, 9 March 2026 
Non Year in Industry Students (**): 
Project plan agreed (*) Friday, 19 June 2026  
Draft dissertation ready (*) Friday, 14 August 2026 
Submission deadline  Tuesday, 1 September 2026/14:00 
 

4 
Year in Industry Students coming back from placements (2024 entry cohort)  
Project plan agreed (*) Friday, 3 July 2026  
Draft dissertation ready (*) Friday, 28 August 2026 
Submission deadline  Tuesday, 15 September 2026/14:00 
 
(*) The project plan and draft dissertation are not formally submitted or graded. The plan should 
be agreed between you and your supervisor in whatever form you both find convenient. You 
give the draft dissertation to your supervisor so that he or she could provide you with 
feedback before the actual submission. Not keeping with these deadlines is an indication 
that your project is not on the right track and you must catch up on the work. 
(**) The Year in Industry dates apply to students who went on year in industry in 2024-25 and 
have come back to do the project. The 2025-entry students who started on a year in industry 
programme but do not go on a placement must adhere to the dates for non-year in industry 
students. All repeat 2024 and earlier start students must adhere to the dates for non-year in 
industry students, even though they may have started their studies on a year in industry 
programme. 
4  Organisation of the project 
This section describes the process of doing an individual project. The basic structure is that students 
meet with their supervisors on a regular basis. 
4.1  Student’s responsibilities 
Titles and supervisors are allocated during Term 2 to give you enough time to start thinking about 
what precisely you will do in your project. You should contact your supervisor after the project 
allocation is published. The supervisor will give you some initial guidance, such as background 
reading material or topics to think over before the project officially starts. He or she may not be 
available immediately for meetings though. Part-time students, who have a lighter exam load, may 
engage in more intensive project work. In some cases, for example, for students doing the project 
at the department of Economics, the initial stage may require producing a formal project proposal 
on the allocated topic. 
You are encouraged to discuss the aims and objectives of the project with the supervisor. If your 
supervisor agrees, you may make some changes to the topic that you were initially allocated. If 
you are on a Year-in-Industry degree, you should arrange a meeting with your supervisor a month 
before the end of your placement to discuss any changes that you would like to make to your 
topic or plan to build on the experience that you will have gained. 
You must have the minimum of three meetings with your supervisor, in June, July, and August. These 
meetings will be logged and attendance information used for visa purposes. These meetings may 
happen in person or on Teams, Zoom or a similar communication system by agreement with the 
supervisor.  
You must start working formally on your project after your exams have finished or, if you are on a 
Year-in-Industry degree, at the end of your placement. Contact your supervisor and organise the 

5 
June meeting. It is recommended (but not required) that the first meeting should be in person. By 
the deadline given above you and your supervisor should finalise the detailed work plan including 
aims, objectives, methodology, preliminary background research, milestones and weekly schedule 
of work. The plan is not formally submitted or graded, but you will receive feedback from your 
supervisor. The role of the deadline is to make sure all students get a clear idea of their project 
structure. 
Make sure to have meetings with your supervisor in July to discuss your progress and in August to 
get feedback on your dissertation draft. 
4.2 Other attendance requirements 
All students are required to complete three check-ins. You need to physically come to the EPMS 
office and present your student ID and be checked of the register. The dates for these check-ins will 
be published on the projects moodle page. 
 
Over the summer, there will be sessions aimed at helping you with dissertation writing. The sessions 
are compulsory and the dates will be published on the projects moodle page.  
4.3  Your project meetings 
The typical duration of a meeting is 30 minutes. The purpose of the meetings is to discuss your 
project work. You should plan these meetings ahead of time.  
It is essential that you do not miss agreed meeting dates/times, so let your supervisor know in 
advance if you would like a meeting to be rescheduled. 
It is up to you to make use of your supervisor. It is not the supervisor’s role to chase you on your 
progress. 
It is vital that you keep records of all project meetings. In particular you must record any deadlines 
given to you and any deliverables required of you. Please take a note book with you to all 
meetings. 
4.4  Backup 
It is very important that you keep all reports, programs, notes etc. backed up.  
You are advised to back up the code you have developed and dissertation drafts on 
https://gitlab.cim.rhul.ac.uk Alternatively, you can keep a copy of the code and dissertation drafts 
on linux.cim.rhul.ac.uk, where the files are regularly backed up. To restore lost files from backup, 
please contact Support on cimhelpdesk@rhul.ac.uk  
4.5  Project milestones 
Your project plan will need to include all important milestones and the dates by which they should 
be completed. Each milestone is associated with a deliverable that you should discuss with your 
supervisor.  
It is clear that the milestones will be specific to your project and reflect the nature of the work that 
you will do. The following is a general example of milestones associated with a programming-
oriented project: 

6 
• Review of Current Theory/State of the Art Completed  
• Requirements Analysis  
• High-Level Design  
• Prototype Program  
• Specification of Testing Procedures  
• Outline of Dissertation  
• Final Draft of Dissertation  
4.6  Project diary 
It is also important that you keep a diary or workbook log of your project work. This will be 
invaluable when you come to write the dissertation as it will help you remember problems that you 
found and dead ends that you investigated. You should also use your diary as a basis for 
discussions with your supervisor about problems and progress. 
The gitlub site https://gitlab.cim.rhul.ac.uk may be used to keep a diary. If your gitlab project is 
shared with the supervisor, he or she can use gitlab to monitor your progress. You should make diary 
notes at least on a weekly basis. 
4.7  Supervisor’s responsibilities 
Your supervisor is there to monitor and advise you on your progress, not to teach you on any aspect 
of your project. Your supervisor should supply references to new, relevant material and be willing to 
discuss any questions that you may have after studying it. 
It is your supervisor’s responsibility to attend each meeting previously agreed with you, or to re-
organise the meetings if this is not possible. Your supervisor will keep an attendance register of your 
meetings and a milestone record. The register is important as evidence of your level of 
engagement with the project. The milestone record is important as evidence of how progress was 
made during the project. These records may be kept electronically. 
 
5  Documenting the project 
Your dissertation is the culmination of your project and will be the final record of your 
achievements. However, as you work on your project, you should keep together all the documents 
that you produce, including early ideas that you will not necessarily pursue or fragments of code. 
These will all be essential for assessing your progress. 
You should read the section on project marking in order to better understand the criteria used in 
assessing a project. 

7 
5.1  Writing the dissertation 
You should aim to agree on the outline of your dissertation with your supervisor as early as possible. 
This will allow you to write up your work as you go along and thus avoid panic in the approach to 
the submission deadline.  
Your supervisor must see a complete draft of your dissertation by the date set in section 3 so 
that their feedback can help you write the final version to the highest standards. 
You should discuss with your supervisor what other deliverables will be required in addition to the 
dissertation. For example:  
• any test results referred to in the dissertation;  
• examples showing the use of any software produced during the project;  
• a working program with instructions on how to execute it;  
• copies of papers or other reference material used for the project.  
5.2  Dissertation format 
The dissertation must follow an approved template. Templates for Word and LaTeX are provided on 
Moodle. 
5.3  What your dissertation must contain 
Your dissertation must contain a section motivating the project and giving the original project aims. 
In this section, you should also explain how you think that the work developed in the project will 
help in your future career. 
You must also write an assessment section that includes an appraisal (self-evaluation) of your effort: 
How did the project go?  What did you do right or wrong?  What have you learnt about planning 
and executing a project?  Where next?   
5.4  What your dissertation should contain 
Because all projects differ, it is hard to prescribe a particular structure for any dissertation. The 
following is only a general guideline but points to elements that any dissertation must contain. 
1. Your dissertation must contain a short abstract summarising the work that you developed.  
2. It must also contain an introduction including the motivation, aims and objectives of your 
project. You should also explain how you think that the work developed in the project will 
help your in your future career.  
3. It must also contain a background research section. This might include a survey of relevant 
literature, programming methods or techniques, as well as any relevant discussion on 
different options that were available to you and a justification for any decisions that you will 
have made.  

8 
4. If a key part of your project is the development of a software product, then you will need to 
include sections describing the software engineering method that you followed and detailing 
the results obtained during the different development phases such as requirements analysis, 
design, implementation and testing. Remember that you need to include a user or 
installation manual.  
5. If your project is mostly theoretical, then you should include sections detailing the 
development of your theory. This might include small programs to investigate certain aspects, 
explanations of algorithms, or descriptions of any particularly hard bits of theory. A 
theoretical project will probably have a section on results and some sections on their 
analysis.  
6. If your project involves computational experiments with real-world data, you will need a 
section or sections on experimental results, analysis, and conclusions derived from the 
experiments.  
7. Every dissertation needs some kind of self-assessment section including an appraisal of your 
effort: How did the project go?  What did you do right/wrong?  What have you learnt about 
planning and executing a project?  Where might you go next?   
8. For Year-in-Industry students, the self-assessment section should also include a reflection on 
how the placement has contributed to the project.  
9. A bibliography of all work that you consulted to understand and develop the project must 
be included and properly referenced in the text.  
10. If any code has been written for the project (whether the project is development or 
experimental), you should have a section on How to Use My Project that tells the markers 
what programs have been written, what examples they might look at, or demonstrations that 
they might run, or simply where to find any software sources.  
11. You may want to include several extras such as a program listing (using, for example, psify), 
sample output, or layout diagrams. It is not required to include all code you have written as 
part of your dissertation; you can submit it in separate folders. 
 
5.5  The size of your dissertation 
Your dissertation should be up to 50 pages and formatted using the approved Word or LaTeX 
template (you should not change page layout or font in the template). The limit includes the 
bibliography, tables, pictures, etc but does not include appendices. The dissertations exceeding 
the limit are subject to the College policy on over-length work. 
While 50 pages amount to approximately 15000 words, there is no limit in terms of the number of 
words because of the ambiguity of the word count in a mathematical text. 
Please note that this limit is an upper bound and not the suggested length. A successful dissertation 
may well be shorter as long as it adequately covers all the required material. If in doubt, please 
contact your supervisor for advice specific to your dissertation topic. For example, for dissertations 
done at the department of Economics the typical size of a dissertation is usually in the range of 
10000-12000 words. 

9 
Any material (such as code that you may have written) that is not essential, can be included in an 
Appendix at the end of the dissertation, outside of the page limit. Please note that examiners will 
not necessarily read the Appendices. 
5.6  Anonymisation 
Your dissertation submission should be anonymous. Do not put your name or your student number 
on the front page and avoid including any details (such as your username or email address) that 
can lead to easy identification. In particular, should you want to thank your supervisor, please do 
not mention him or her by name. Allthough full anonymisation may not be possible, please make 
an effort to achieve anonymity.  
You may want to make a version of the dissertation with the name on the front page to show to 
prospective employers or to use in similar situations. 
6  Information sources 
6.1  Plagiarism and acknowledgement of sources 
Your project and dissertation must be your own work. Plagiarism (the unacknowledged use of other 
people’s work) is a very serious offence and will be severely penalised. 
Nonetheless, it is in the nature of an individual project that part of the material included in the 
dissertation will not be original. You will have researched around your subject and discovered many 
sources of information. It is vital that any quote made from any source (including the web) should 
be properly acknowledged, both where it is used within the dissertation text, and at the end of the 
dissertation in the bibliography. For example: 
Henry Smith [1] states that ‘The problem of wild animals on campus can only be solved 
by the introduction of even wilder animals which will eat them.’ However, the results 
obtained in this project seem to contradict him.  
In this case, the citation [1] would refer to a bibliography entry such as 
1. Smith, H. Modern University Life. Wombat Press, 1997.  
If you express someone else’s idea in your own words, then you must also acknowledge their 
original expression of the idea. For example: 
Smith [1] believes that an infestation of wild animals in a university can only be cured by 
introducing suitable predators. However, the obviously recursive nature of his proposal 
led me to consider more feasible alternatives.  
If you use examples from a lecture course or a book to illustrate your background theory, then you 
must acknowledge the original source; similarly if you follow a book or lecture notes when 
presenting background theory. For example: 
The following sequence of definitions is based on [1], with simplifications due to the 
fact that we are only considering finite widgets.  
Whereas it is perfectly acceptable that any program that you develop includes pieces of code 
that you did not write yourself, you must identify them and say where they came from. For 

10 
example, if you copy an implementation of a particular algorithm from a book, you must make it 
clear that you did not write those lines of code. 
Note that there is no outright ban on the use of imported code: sometimes you have no alternative 
but to use a freely available library or a clever hack from stackoverflow to do a particular task. You 
should discuss all such cases with your supervisor to make sure that the use of the borrowed code is 
consistent with the purpose of the project and you must acknowledge all such cases in the 
dissertation. 
A general rule is that if you are in doubt about needing to acknowledge a source, you probably 
should. Do ask your supervisor for advice. 
The use of generative Artificial Intelligence tools (such as ChatGPT or Google Bard) for the project is 
prohibited in accordance with Royal Holloway regulations. Using generative AI tools may constitute 
an assessment offence. 
If your project involves research on generative AI, please discuss this with your supervisor and get 
express guidance on the use of the tools to make sure you do not violate the regulations. On no 
account you can present the content (such as programs or text) generated by AI tools as your 
own; this content must be explicitly labelled as AI-generated.  
Finally, under no circumstances should copyright material be included in a project dissertation 
without the proper permissions having been obtained, and any such inclusion should be agreed 
with your supervisor. 
6.2  Ethics and intellectual property 
While working on your project you may be approaching companies and other (state, charitable 
etc) organisations and asking them for information and data. It is your responsibility to check with 
the information provider whether and to what extent you can use that information in your research 
and to strictly adhere to all conditions stipulated by the information provider. For example, some 
companies and organisations may allow limited use of information in research but strictly prohibit 
further unauthorised dissemination of information; make sure you follow the conditions precisely. 
As a general rule, if any information remotely appears sensitive, check with the information source 
whether you are allowed to include it in your dissertation. If a matter is complicated, discuss it with 
your supervisor. 
This is particularly important if you have been on an industrial placement and want to use the 
information you acquired during the placement in you project. Always check with the company if 
you are allowed to use that information and to what extent. 
On the Internet there are public repositories of datasets (such as UCI Machine Learning Repository 
at http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/ ) widely used by researchers. If you use information or data from 
such sources, it is your responsibility to check their distribution policy (e.g., citation requirements) 
and adhere to it. 
7  Submitting the dissertation 
This section tells you how to produce and submit the dissertation. It also defines the circumstances 
in which the submission deadline can be extended. 

11 
You must submit an electronic copy of the dissertation, software, and any other relevant material in 
using the departmental anonymous submission mechanism. 
7.1  Electronic Submission 
The project submission should be done on the moodle page CS5821/5822 Individual Projects for 
Computer Science MSc programmes. 
You must make sure that it is possible for your project markers to run any programs that you have 
produced as part of your project. You need to submit the following: 
• the report in the pdf format; 
• source files for any programs you have written; 
• any makefiles; 
• essential results files, graphs, diagrams etc (see below for a discussion of what you should not 
submit); 
• other files specific to your project. 
In the submission directory you should include instructions for building any programs included from 
the source code. If your program was not built on the departmental computer system then you 
must say how it was built on whatever system you used. 
Remember that your dissertation must include full instructions on running any programs that you 
submit: 
• It is your responsibility to make sure that the examiners are able to run your program. 
• Your dissertation must say where your program is located (relative to your submission 
directory). 
• If you have used your own computer, then you must say where all relevant files are located 
relative to your submission directory, and how to install the files needed to run your project.  
It is also important that your submission should be of a manageable size. It is no use submitting 
gigabytes of intermediate results, for example: the marker will not be able to go through them 
anyway and the large submissions may overload the system. Therefore an upper limit of 100 
megabytes is set. 
As a basic rule, if a file has been written by you, you must submit it; if a file has been downloaded or 
generated by one of your programs, think twice about submitting it. Here are guidelines on what 
not to submit: 
• large datasets: if a dataset is available from the web, include a reference with a url in your 
project report; if the dataset is uploaded on the departmental cluster, just leave it there (making 
sure the file has read permissions) and quote the path in your report; 
• raw output, log files, and intermediate files: submit only the essential files or a small 
representative selection; the examiner should be able to ascertain you carried out the work but 

12 
does not need to (and cannot) see everything; instead of raw output, submit graphs or 
visualisations. 
If you cannot fit your submission under the 100 megabytes limit, speak to your supervisor first and 
then the project committee. 
7.2  Student Feedback Form 
Students should fill in the project feedback form. Instructions on how to obtain and submitted will be 
provided before the dissertation submission date.  
7.3  Extensions 
The project is covered by the College extensions system. If you require an extension, apply at 
https://intranet.royalholloway.ac.uk/students/study/exams/extensions-and-extenuating-
circumstances/ext.aspx  
8  Assessment 
This section is concerned with the overall assessment of a project. Every project will be marked by 
at least two independent markers (with more markers invited if there is a dispute). Marks are then 
checked by the external examiner and ratified by the departmental and school assessment 
boards. 
8.1  The criteria 
Examiners should mark from 0%–100%. 
Because every project is different, it is impossible to give a universal marking scheme. However, the 
following guidelines specify the features which a project must have in order to be awarded a mark 
in each class range. 
1. A distinction project (70%-100%) should be outstanding in most respects. It should show a 
mature, accurate grasp of the issues raised by the topic and should conduct a sustained, 
coherent argument in a style that is fluent. It should demonstrate an excellent knowledge of 
appropriate reference material, techniques and relevant theoretical perspectives. It should 
also demonstrate excellent technical/practical skills where these are needed. So that 
distinction marks may make their proper contribution to the final average, it is important that 
they should not be limited to the low 70s. Examiners should use the full band analogously to 
others and be prepared to give marks above 80% for outstanding work. 
A mark between 70% and 79% should clearly be a distinction project. 
A mark of 80% or more should only be given for projects with excellent dissertations and 
where the student has achieved one of the following:  
• The achievement of the student would be a very good basis for continuing research in 
the area.  
• The practical work is of such a high professional standard that it could be distributed 
without significant extra effort.  

13 
• The student has worked independently, exceeded expectations, and clearly 
demonstrated a very deep understanding of their results.  
Exceptional projects may occasionally be awarded a mark in excess of 90%. 
2. A clear merit project (60%-69%) should have many of the features characteristic of a 
distinction project. Creativity and originality or breadth and depth of response could 
compensate for some weakness in style or some incoherence of argument. Alternatively, a 
well-written thoughtful dissertation could compensate for a narrowness in the range of issues 
addressed. Projects in this class should contain little or no irrelevant material and should be 
generally well constructed.  
3. A borderline pass-merit project (55%-59%) would show that the candidate has grasped the 
basic issues raised by the topic, but has not achieved the qualities listed for a distinction or 
clear merit grade. There should be some theoretical analysis and/or experimentation and 
implementation. This grade might alternatively be awarded where the quality of argument is 
mitigated by clear weaknesses, e.g., a detailed dissertation with considerable insights, 
marred by a lack of background material, poor organisation of material or incomplete work 
or errors. 
4. A bare pass project (50%-54%) gives some evidence that the main part of the topic is 
understood. However, recognition of issues is incomplete, and analysis and discussion is 
restricted. Evidence may be unbalanced or of dubious relevance with a tendency to 
excessive generalisation or unsupported assertions of a subjective nature.  
5. A mark just above the pass/fail boundary represents a failure to approach the topic. The 
project may show some evidence of study but a failure to mobilise it as an implementation or 
with background theory, with a tendency towards incoherence. 
6. A mark up to 49% should be used where the report has serious errors, or where there is little 
evidence of the candidate having studied, or where the report is poorly constructed, or 
where the report is not relevant to the topic. 
7. Where only a few lines of work have been submitted, the candidate is not deemed to have 
made a serious attempt at the project and a mark of zero will be recorded.  
8.2  What the markers mark 
The above list is enough to classify each project submitted. Within these (wide) classification bands, 
markers will use many different criteria for assessing a project.  
1. Difficulty. Each project title has the scope for an ambitious attempt, or a straightforward 
progression. Marks may be awarded for making an intelligent try at a more difficult goal. 
2. Presentation. Presentation of the material and arguments in a way that makes their 
development clear to a computer scientist who is not a specialist in the project topic. 
3. The Journey. Any project that required many new topics to be assimilated during the process 
should get credit for this. 
4. Content. Has a minimum of ground been covered?  Most projects should contain an 
exposition of an area of theory, as well as some practise. 

14 
5. Scale. Does the project represent work worthy of 60 credits?  
6. Results. Obviously we are interested in results. However, a good grade can be obtained for a 
project that is incomplete. This includes non fully working programs, theories that are 
incomplete, etc. The work can still be judged against all of the other criteria above. 
7. Review. The critical review or assessment section will be of most importance to the second 
marker. It demonstrates the student’s appreciation of the difficulty and relevance of the 
work involved in the project. 
8. Background. Evidence of a good understanding of the background theory or current state of 
the art. 
9. Objectives. Clarity of statement of objectives. 
8.3  The marking process 
1. All projects will be marked by two independent markers, one of whom will be the project 
supervisor.  
2. In the event of a small discrepancy (less than 10%), the marks will be averaged with equal 
weighting.  
3. In the event of a larger discrepancy, a third independent marker will mark the project, and 
the projects committee shall seek agreement amongst all markers as the final outcome.  
4. Markers will mark according to the marking criteria supplied and will justify marks with a short 
paragraph on the marking form.  
5. No marking penalty will apply to a project submitted by a student on time or within the limits 
of an agreed extension.  
6. The project is covered by the College extensions system just like other assignments. Unless an 
extension has been granted by the College, the marking penalty for a late submission is 10 
marks for a project submitted within 24 hours of project deadline. After 24 hours no project 
will be accepted and the mark of zero will be given.  
8.4  Grievances 
1. Students may complain only on grounds of insufficient monitoring, or inappropriate demands 
made by their supervisor.  
2. In the first instance, a student should bring complaints to their supervisor.  
3. If, after bringing a complaint to the supervisor, the student still has a grievance, then they 
should bring it to a member of the Project Committee.  
4. If the Committee feels that the complaint is justified, and the student so wishes, the Project 
Committee will make representations to the supervisor.  
5. If the Committee feels that a complaint is justified, then they will minute this and the 
grievance will be considered when assessing the project.  

15 
6. A student who believes the complaint has not been handled satisfactorily may take the 
matter further and consult the Student Complaints Procedure at 
https://intranet.royalholloway.ac.uk/students/study/complaints/complaints/student-
complaints.aspx Please note that submitting a formal complaint through the College 
procedure would not resolve an issue immediately; the process may take considerable time. 
It is therefore strongly recommended to raise the issue with the department first. 
